.TH "MKINITRAMFS" "8" "May 2022" "mkinitramfs" "MassOS System Utilities"
.hy
.SH NAME
.PP
mkinitramfs - Generate or regenerate an initramfs.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]mkinitramfs\f[R] [\f[I]kernel_version\f[R]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\f[B]mkinitramfs\f[R] is a wrapper around dracut(8) used to easily (re)generate an initramfs.

The initramfs is a small compressed filesystem containing the modules and drivers needed to mount the root filesystem, which is loaded by the bootloader immediately after the kernel.

\f[B]mkinitramfs\f[R] will generate or regenerate an initramfs using dracut(8). The output image will be written to /boot/initramfs-<kernel_version>.img (any existing initramfs will be automatically overwritten).

If no argument is passed, \f[B]mkinitramfs\f[R] will try to generate for the currently booted kernel. In some situations such as a chroot environment, this may fail. Therefore, the target kernel version can also be passed as an argument to \f[B]mkinitramfs\f[R].

NOTE: If you are generating the first initramfs for a newly installed kernel, you may subsequently need to update the bootloader configuration file using grub-mkconfig(8).
.SH EXIT STATUS
.PP
\f[B]mkinitramfs\f[R] will exit with 0 for success and >0 for failure.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
\f[B]mkinitramfs\f[R]
Generate or regenerate an initramfs for the currently booted kernel.
.TP
\f[B]mkinitramfs 5.18.0-massos\f[R]
Generate or regenerate an initramfs for kernel version 5.18.0-massos.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
dracut(8), grub-mkconfig(8)
.SH BUGS
.PP
Report bugs to <https://github.com/MassOS-Linux/MassOS/issues>.

NOTE: Please first check that your issue has not yet been fixed in the development branch!
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright (C) 2022 MassOS Developers.

This software is part of the MassOS system, and is licensed under the GNU GPLv3+.

A copy of the license can be found at /usr/share/massos/LICENSE on a MassOS system.

It can also be found at <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
