.TH "SET-DEFAULT-TAR" "8" "May 2022" "set-default-tar" "MassOS System Utilities"
.hy
.SH NAME
.PP
set-default-tar - Set the default tar program on MassOS.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[B]set-default-tar\f[R] <\f[I]program\f[R]>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\f[B]set-default-tar\f[R] is a small utility which will change the default program for tar(1) on MassOS.

MassOS has multiple tar implementations. The default is bsdtar from libarchive, however there is also GNU tar.

There are more subtle differences between both, but in short, bsdtar supports more archive formats (such as .zip, .7z, .deb, etc.), whereas GNU tar supports more command line options.

\f[B]set-default-tar\f[R] will update the /usr/bin/tar symlink to point to the program specified.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.PP
\f[B]set-default-tar\f[R] will exit with 0 for success and 1 for failure.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
\f[B]set-default-tar bsdtar\f[R]
Sets the default tar program to libarchive bsdtar (default).
.TP
\f[B]set-default-tar gtar\f[R]
Sets the default tar program to GNU tar.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
tar(1)
.SH BUGS
.PP
Report bugs to <https://github.com/MassOS-Linux/MassOS/issues>.

NOTE: Please first check that your issue has not yet been fixed in the development branch!
.SH COPYRIGHT
.PP
Copyright (C) 2022 MassOS Developers.

This software is part of the MassOS system, and is licensed under the GNU GPLv3+.

A copy of the license can be found at /usr/share/massos/LICENSE on a MassOS system.

It can also be found at <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
